Welcome back.
In the last lesson we just handled the observer pattern that we are currently using when interfacing
with the firestorm library in our application.
But I did mention that there is a very high likelihood that in a future project that you join you might
not be using either the observable slash observer pattern or you might have your own server of some
kind that is not firebase.
If that were the case you may not use this observer pattern that we've implemented here.
Instead you'll use a promise based pattern.
And I just want to quickly go over how we would do that but still leveraging our firebase firestorm
database.
We're just going to treat it like some regular API endpoint that we can make requests to or make API
calls to.
Because firebase allows us to do so there's actually two ways we can do this.
The first way is we still leverage the fire store collection ref objects that we get back from the fire
store or library except instead of returning this observable style of object we return promises.
I'm going to show you that way and then I'll show you the other way where we use the native fetch in
order for us to still use our collection rough to do so except doing it in a promise oriented manner
instead of using on snapshot what we use is dot get what dot get does for us is it makes a API call
to fetch back the data associated to this collection.
Which will it be the exact same as the snapshot object that we're getting back from are back in.
The only difference is that instead now we call dot then and we pass our Snapshot transformation into
this dot.
Then
and if we save and go back we'll see that our application behaves the exact same way and our shop is
still getting updated with the correct items from our fire start back end.
So that's a very simple way to just switch over to using a promised style.
If you're more comfortable with it the only caveat here is that the only time we'll ever get new data
from our back end is when we remount our shop.
This is because we're no longer leveraging the live updates stream style that the observable pattern
lended us when we were using on snapshot as before.
Now we're literally doing one off API calls inside of our component at Mount leveraging the promised
change style of doing asynchronous event handling now.
How would we do this if instead we were to try this using the fetch pattern that might be more common.
If you were using any other type of database while firebase actually allows us to use their database
their fire store databases as API which are accessible by a euro and if we go to the dogs here we actually
see that all of the your Ls are nested under this base your URL.
The only thing that we have to do is we need to add and switch out this your projects I.D. with our
database I.D. which in my case you can always find it if you go to your firebase console inside of your
project that you're using.
You hit the gear you go to project settings and you'll find whatever your project ideas here.
Now for me it's Crown DV.
So what you're gonna do is you're gonna take this I.D. and you're going to replace the section of this
your URL where it says your project document I.D..
So just replace that with your I.D. and then what you want to do is you're going to copy this string
up until the documents slash section so we don't want everything up until the cities L.A. portion of
the URL you're going to copy that you're gonna go back to your application and you're going to comment
out this code.
And then what you're gonna do is you're gonna just use the native fetch API as we remember and we're
gonna paste our string in and then we're gonna get our collections.
So we want to go.
Documents slash.
And then we just want to say collections and we want the whole collections collection.
And now we're just going to chain our dog then and as you remember from fetch we have to convert our
response to Jason and let's just log out what our collections looks like.
So we have an idea of what it is that this endpoint actually gives us back because we're not dealing
with snapshot or reference objects anymore.
Now if we look inside of our actual console log we'll see we get an object that has this documents array
on it inside of this array.
We have these objects that represent the collection documents that we have inside however the fields
are actually on this Field's property and the fields have the actual name of the field but not the value
the value is actually in another property.
And here we say it's called array value.
And then on the array value we see it's a values.
And even in the values we see that their map values that goes to the field that finally give us the
actual objects that we need.
Now this is extremely nested.
This is at least eight levels nested just for us to get these values.
So we're not actually going to use them not for this case at least.
But we did see how we can use fetch to get at least the objects that we need if we had to interface
with such a nested object like this we would just modify our actual modification function so that it
properly navigates through that and then builds out the object we need.
But the pattern would largely remain the same as pretty much what we have here right in this final thought
then we would still just convert the collections array into the collections Map object we need fire
our update collections and then set the state so hopefully you've seen at the very least how simple
it is based on the pattern that we've already written to pretty much just convert what was already before
our Observer pattern into this promise pattern very simple very easy.
It's just that with this final fetch method and fire store in particular it's just such an unnecessary
amount of work for us to do right now especially when we have a working solution.
So let's actually remove this fetch from our code base and just go back to using our collection ref
dog get method because here we're going to actually segue way in to a lesson on redux asynchronous event
handling.
So right now what we're doing is we're handling the asynchronous nature of fetching data inside of this
component our shop component is the one that actually does the call to get and then to update the snapshot
on all of this information here.
But technically speaking it does not have to be the actual location that gets this information or actually
handles the logic regarding the fetching of this information instead what we might want to do is have
this code inside of a redux action that will handle all of the asynchronous nature and then fire the
event because that's really all we're doing here but in order for us to do that we need to understand
the reasons why why would we want to move the logic out of our component at Mount.
The only reason why we would ever want to do such a thing is because there's a chance that we need to
do this call where we're fetching some kind of data from our back end and then converting it and storing
it or a reducer somewhere else in our application.
What do I mean by this if we never go to this page this shop page at all right let's say we refresh
our application we will actually see that we have never fired our set categories or set shot collections
our collections is always know our action only fires when our shop component mounts for the first time
either if we go to the slash shop route or slash shop category I.D. slash heart slash jacket whatever
there's a chance that there's another component that we want to leverage this exact same method.
We don't want to have to rewrite this exact same code in another page component because it needs to
access the shop component and we also don't want to move everything up into our top level objects component
because then we might be rendering so much data in our application.
Once our initial application mounts that it seems really tedious.
We just want to reuse this piece of the code if you understand what I'm saying.
If we were to move this ability to fetch from the database and store it into our reducer into the top
level such as into our app component which is our highest level component that we know always mounts
if our application loads.
Then imagine if we had five six data endpoints that we needed to do the exact same pattern for right.
Let's say we had to do it for multiple documents and multiple collections.
Well we would be fetching and waiting and rendering a lot of data the moment the application mounts.
And that's really bad on performance.
What we instead want to do is keep this pattern where we kept it on the appropriate page which was our
shot page that cares about the data.
It's just that there's a chance that there's more parts of our application that might also need to leverage
this collection and should not be dependent on our shot Page mounting for them to get the collection
data that they need.
So what we're gonna do as I mentioned earlier is move this into an asynchronous redux action that will
allow us to reuse this in multiple places.
But we are going to tackle that in the next lesson.
But now is also probably a good time for us to commit our code so let's just check what we've added
and we've added a lot.
So we are going to get an
all this code that we have so let's just say what we did was implement code that pulls in our shop data
from fire store and stores it into the shop reducer from our shop page also included are with Spinner
HFC and now let's push this up and move on to the next lesson.